# Reviewing and Setting Up the Environment
Time: 15 minutes
Current AMI (us-east-1): 

- Splunk (ami-05e514a3ae552baa4)
- NGINX (ami-0bc00791b4de1ea4e)

## Instructions

In this lab, we'll review the environment, making sure that Splunk is running in the server provided. 

### Login (Linux)
You'll access the server through SSH with the following credentials:

```
student|splunk
```

Then, confirm that you have access to the Splunk UI using the IP provided with port 8000, like this: http://{{SPLUNK_HOST}}:8000/. Replace `SPLUNK_HOST` with your IP.

Use the following credentials:

```
admin|SplunkB00tcamp
```

### Login (Windows)
You'll access the server through RDP with the following credentials:

```
student|SplunkB00tcamp
```

Then, confirm that you have access to the Splunk UI using the IP provided with port 8000 using the local browser in the serverty, like this: http://localhost:8000/.

Use the following credentials:

```
admin|SplunkB00tcamp
```
 
### Review the App
Make sure that the app called "SA-Eventgen" is already created. You can check this in the left panel of the Home page.

### Event Generator
We're using the [Eventgen](https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/1924/) app to simulate real-time events. Eventgen is already installed, but it's disabled. So let's enable it to start receiving events:

- Go to "Settings" (top menu)
- Then click on "Data inputs"
- In the Local Inputs section, click on "SA-Eventgen"
- Click on the "Enable" link from the status column
- Go to the "Destinations" app again. You should see that the number of events indexed is increasing.
