# Upload Log Data Manually
Time: 20 minutes

## Instructions
This time, you're going to upload data manually from your local computer. You'll download some example files from Splunk, and then you'll confirm that the data has been uploaded by doing a simple search.

### Add Data Manually
Let's start by downloading the data. But don't un-compress it, you may need to right click on the link to `Save Link as`. You'll upload public data for consumer and visitor insights for neighborhoods from the US Census Bureau's census block group (CBG).

##### CBG Data
A CBG is the most granular level the US Census Bureau reports data on, and it covers ~1,500 households.

SafeGraph derived the popularity of a CBG or distances traveled to a CBG by analyzing a large panel of GPS movement data.

We also combined this GPS data with our dataset of five million building footprints for points of interest in the US (SafeGraph Places) to determine visits to places like stores or restaurants. We used these visit counts to derive consumer insights such as top brands (like, say, McDonald's) visited in a CBG.

### Task

- [Download](../data/visit-patterns-by-census-block-group.zip) the `visit-patterns-by-census-block-group.zip` file.  Follow the provided link and download the "zip" file.  Make sure you keep the file as a "zip" file, do not expend it.  
- Click on `Settings` and then on `Add Data`
- Click on the `Upload` box 
- Under `Select Source`, click the `Select File` button to browse for the file that you just downloaded in a previous step
- Select the `visit-patterns-by-census-block-group.zip` file and click `Open`
- Click `Next` to continue to `Input Settings`
- Click `Review`
- Click `Submit` 
- Finally, to see the data, click `Start Searching` and confirm that the data has been uploaded successfully.

##### Bonus Question

How many events do you see?

> _note: Don't wait to long for the event count to complete.  The instructor can explain what is going on with this search.
