# Use the Forwarder to Send Metrics to Splunk
Time: 40 minutes

## Instructions
It's time to start doing more complicated things in the Splunk instance. This time, you'll install [Collectd](https://collectd.org/), which is a daemon that collects performance metrics periodically from the server where it's running.

Maybe you'll use other tools, but the idea of this lab is that you experience the process of sending logs from a server to Splunk by using a forwarder.

### Configure the HEC
In the Splunk WebUI,

- Click `Settings` > `Data Inputs`
- Under `Local Inputs`, click `HTTP Event Collector`
- Verify that HEC is enabled
    - Click `Global Settings`
    - For `All Tokens`, click `Enabled` if this button isn't already selected
    - Click `Save`
- Configure an HEC token for sending data by clicking `New Token`
    - On the `Select Source` page, for `Name`, enter a token name. For example, you could use `collectd_token`
    - Leave the other options blank or unselected
    - Click `Next`
    - On the `Input Settings` page, for `Source type`, click `Select`
    - Click `Select Source Type`, then select `Metrics` > `collectd_http`
    - Next to `Default Index`, we need to create a new metrics index, click `Create a new index` to create one in the "New Index" dialog box do the following:
        - Enter an index name. User-defined index names must consist of only numbers, lowercase letters, underscores, and hyphens.  Index names cannot begin with an underscore or hyphen.  Use the name `metrics` in this instance.  If you use a different index name you will need to adjust the search later in the exercise.
        - For `Index Data Type`, select `Metrics`
        - Click `Save`
    - Click `Review`, and then click `Submit`
- Copy the token value that's displayed, which you'll need to configure Collectd when replacing it with `{{SPLUNK_AUTH}}`

### Install and Configure Collectd
You'll need to SSH into the Splunk instance to run all the following commands and configurations.

- Let's start by installing Collectd. Run `sudo apt install collectd`
- Let's edit the Collectd configuration file located at `/etc/collectd/collectd.conf`. To edit the file you can use Nano, VIM or use a different editor of your choice. To use nano run `sudo nano /etc/collectd/collectd.conf`
- In this file, **include** the following configuration section **at the end** (make sure you replace `{{SPLUNK_AUTH}}` with the proper value. You have this information from the previous section when you were configuring HEC):

```
<Plugin cpu>
  ReportByCpu true
</Plugin>

<Plugin memory>
    ValuesAbsolute true
    ValuesPercentage true
</Plugin>

LoadPlugin write_http
<Plugin write_http>
    <Node "node1">
        URL "https://127.0.0.1:8088/services/collector/raw"
        Header "Authorization: Splunk {{SPLUNK_AUTH}}"
        Format "JSON"
        VerifyPeer false
        VerifyHost false
        Metrics true
        StoreRates true
    </Node>
</Plugin>

LoadPlugin logfile
<Plugin logfile>
    LogLevel info
    File "/var/log/collectd.log"
    Timestamp true
    PrintSeverity false
</Plugin>
```
- Restart the Collectd daemon with `sudo systemctl restart collectd`
- Verify it is running correctly with `sudo systemctl status collectd`

Let's wait a little bit for some data to be added and then run the following search that is broken into two lines:

```
| mstats avg(_value) prestats=t WHERE index=metrics AND metric_name="cpu.*" span=1m by metric_name
| timechart avg(_value) as "Avg" span=1m by metric_name
```

- Click on "Visualization" to confirm that new data is coming
- Play around with the time "Presets" for more detailed data

### References
- [https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.2.1/Metrics/GetMetricsInCollectd](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.2.1/Metrics/GetMetricsInCollectd
)
- [https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.2.1/Metrics/Search](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.2.1/Metrics/Search)
