# Search Examples II
Time: 30 minutes

## Instructions
This time, instead of copying and pasting queries, you'll try to do the searches on your own. You can ask questions or reread the information from the slide deck. (In the notes, you'll find the links to the official docs.)

**Make sure you save the searches. You'll need them later**

### Time Ranges
Using the data you uploaded previously in lab #3, answer the following questions (you might not need to create complex queries if you inspect all the elements in `Search & Reporting` app dashboard):

- 7.1 - What's the top brand in 2018?
- 7.2 - What's the period of time for the data? (Use the `Format Timeline` graph)
- 7.3 - How many events are for October?
- 7.4 - How many events are in 2017?
- 7.5 - How many events are for the brand `Cricket Wireless`? Inspect how the data is being stored for the brand field. You'll need to scape the characters and be specific in the search term. Spoiler alert&mdash;the number is greater than 1,000 and lower than 1,050.
- 7.6 - How many events are for the brand `McDonalds`?

If you want, you can save each search. We'll talk about that later. But just in case you finish early...;)

### Using the Search App
Now, this time, try to use the search app or the UI to answer the questions below. It's even better if you can create the queries from scratch, but start slowly by using the UI.

But first, let's upload more data again. This time, upload the data from [Google Play Store Apps](../data/google-play-store-apps.zip).

- 7.7 - What's the third most popular category?
- 7.8 - What are the top three apps with a rating of five in August, 2018?
- 7.9 - How many apps exist for Android version `5.0 and up`?
- 7.10 - How many installations have had the `Bowmasters` app? Use the `Installs` field, you'll need to click on "more fields" to see it.
- 7.11 - What are the paid apps with more than "500,000+" installations?
- 7.12 - What's the most common sentiment for the `Facebook` app? Positive or negative?
- 7.13 - What's the rating valute for the `Twitter` app?
