# Using Lookups
Time: 30 minutes

## Instructions
This time, you'll create lookups that you can later use when searching events.

### Upload the Lookups data
Let's upload the lookups CSV data manually to Splunk.

- [Download the Prices.csv.zip file](http://docs.splunk.com/images/d/db/Prices.csv.zip)
- Uncompress the Prices.csv.zip file. Don't open it with Excel
- Go to "Settings" and click on "Lookups" under "Knowledge"
- Click "+ Add new" in the "Lookup table files" section
- Choose the file you just downloaded and extracted
- Type a name for the name of the new lookup table, e.g., prices.csv
- Click on "Save"
- Change the "Permissions" of the table to "All apps." You'll find the option in the "Sharing" column in the list of lookup table files (the screen that appears after you saved the file)


### Create a Lookup Definition
Now you need to define the information in the lookup table file and tell Splunk how that information is related to fields in events.

- Go to "Settings" and click on "Lookups" under "Knowledge"
- Click on "Lookup definitions" and then click on "New Lookup Definition"
- Type a name, like "prices_lookup"
- Choose the "prices.csv" lookup file you just uploaded
- Click on "Save"
- Change the "Permissions" of the table to "All apps." You'll find the option in the "Sharing" column in the list of lookup table files (the screen that appears after you saved the file)

### Lookup Automatically
Instead of having to manually use the lookup table, you can configure it when you want to apply a field lookup to the events when searching.

- Go to "Settings" and click on "Lookups" under "Knowledge"
- Click "+ Add new" in the "Automatic lookups" section
- Type a name for the lookup, like "autolookup_prices"
- Choose the lookup table definition you just created before
- In the empty text box for "Apply to", type "access_combined_wcookie"
- For "Lookup input fields," type "productId" in both text boxes
- For "Lookup output fields," specify the fields that you'd like to display in the search results:
    - Type `product_name` (field in prices.csv) and `productName` in the text boxes
    - Click on "+ Add another field"
    - Type `price` and `price` in the text boxes

### Search Using the Lookups
Finally, let's use the lookups when searching events.

- Go back to the searching page
- Search for 
the `access` events from `All time`
- Scroll through the "Interesting Fields" and look for the "price" field
- Click the "price" link
- Click "Yes" for the "Selected" option to move this field to the list of selected fields
- Close the dialog box
- Repeat the same process that you did for the "price" field but for the "productName" field
- Run the searches below and ask "What data is each search returning?" Remember to specify the index name if you're not using the "main" index.

```
sourcetype=access_* |stats values(price) AS Price BY productName |rename productName AS "Product Name"
```

```
sourcetype=access_* status=200 action=purchase [search sourcetype=access_* status=200 action=purchase | top limit=1 clientip | table clientip] | stats count AS "Total Purchased", dc(productId) AS "Total Products", values(productId) AS "Product IDs" BY clientip | rename clientip AS "VIP Customer"
```

```
sourcetype=access_* status=200 action=purchase [search sourcetype=access_* status=200 action=purchase | top limit=1 clientip | table clientip] | stats count AS "Total Purchased", dc(productId) AS "Total Products", values(productName) AS "Product Names" BY clientip | rename clientip AS "VIP Customer"
```
### Adding your Own Lookup
In order to make it more interesting, pick a id field and upload a lookup file to include a name of the id. Basically, do the same as you did with the `product_id` but with other field.